In this chapter, we will take a little
bit closer look at Intel SGX and its
security vulnerabilities. Even though we
are implementing security techniques in
hardware, it yeah it cannot be perfect.
So there are some known uh
vulnerabilities. So we will also discuss
uh what kind of vulnerabilities have
been found
uh uh in injeudes
integrity protection, confidentiality
and isolation assurance that are
yeah uh the typical objectives of uh
trusted execution environment integ uh
in order to protect integrity
uh the SUGX
uh can detect provides some detection
mechanism of integrity violations.
So if any unauthorized application
including the system software uh tries
to uh modify what is the resources used
by the inclaim then uh the hardware
mechanism can uh should protect uh
prevent or detect uh such attempts.
So that includes the memory the yeah the
memory is the most important part the
resource uh but also uh the accesses to
the uh the the data in the storage
and uh confidentiality also should be
guaranteed. Uh
so the isolation by isolating or
preventing access from other
unauthorized
uh applications or system software we
can logically ensure the uh isolation
and that means uh the data used by the
inclave application cannot be revealed
to other uh unauthorized applications. s
and uh there could be some uh data that
need to be stored in the uh memory that
is not on the exp uh protection. We will
discuss this later and also uh we may
need to store the data in the storage
that is shared by all applications. In
the case we have to employ cryptographic
isolation mechanism. That means
basically we are encrypting the data
and uh so if there are multiple enclaves
then they can be should be uh separated
and also the enclave is also isolated
from other uh parts of the uh the
system.
the uh the execution model of SUGX
includes uh these features. The first
one is the SGX applications
uh consist of two parts normal untrusted
region and a security critical enclave
region.
Uh the enclave application is not
running just uh as a single part. It
always begin with the normal untrusted
reason and it uh changes or enters the
inclave execution by using a special
instruction.
And after finishing or in the middle of
execution of the enclave the trusted
part then it can uh go out or call the
untrusted part. So basically SGX in case
of SGX the applications
uh are uh running uh going into and out
of the enclave regions.
So the when the host process initiates
an enclave application then it lose the
data and uh the code and data into the
protected memory and then after checking
the uh its integrity their integrity uh
in launches the application
and the code uh executing within the
enclave can access the process reserved
memory that is dedicated to the enclave
application.
And uh when the enclave uh functions
complete then the result uh must be
returned to the host process while
enclave contents remain protected in
isolated memory space.
This is the organization of the memory
uh in SGX.
Uh here you can see that the in the DM
the main memory a part of the memory is
reserved as a processor reserved memory
and this is a physically identified that
means uh the address space of the PRM is
determined by its uh physical address.
So the hardware can easily
uh protect or prevent other unauthorized
software or even DMA from accessing this
region because this is a physic based on
we can determine whether this address is
in PRM or not by its physical address
and in the PRM there is a part that uh
EPC See enclave page cache. This is used
by the enclave application and other
part of the PRM is used by the uh
enclave uh TCB. Uh so in this region the
enclave TCB uh stores the metadata
and uh in in EPC
uh it is basically cache. though uh
different enclaves may uh may uh have
allocated memory paging in this region.
So you can see here that uh some uh
enclave
uh pages can be mapped to the EPC and
the inclave. Yeah, this is the enclave
pages and it can be stored in the uh
EPC.
In other words, the enclave memories may
not be all of the inclave memories
cannot be stored in EPC because the size
of EPC is limited and cannot be
dynamically
extended.
uh the size of the PRM actually is
determined at the booting time
but but not runtime. So even though we
we don't have enough EPC we cannot yeah
increase the its size in that case we
have to store the inclave memory in uh
unprotected region of the main memory in
that case to protect that uh that uh
data we have to encrypt so that other uh
applications cannot access that data.
And from the perspective of virtual
memory
uh the uh the
from the host application
uh some memory space cannot be accessed
and it is only uh can be accessed by the
inclave
of virtual memory and uh So yeah as I
mentioned the application
in even inclive application consist of
the two parts one is uh untrusted
uh part and the other one is trusted
part that's why even uh but anyways they
are uh in the same application so they
have the same vure memory space and uh
this part this part can be accessed only
by the thrusted part inclave
application. It is determined by uh uh
this e uh ea ly
and uh this yeah this virtual memory
space
uh should be mapped to the physical page
so that we can actually access
When this virtual memory page is stored
uh loaded to the uh physical memory, it
should be stored in uh EPC.
This page mapping is maintained by
system software the operating system.
But here the the main assumption of the
SGX is that we don't trust the operating
system.
So there is no guarantee that the
operating system maps this virtual
address of the enclave application to
the correct EPC area. That's why we
define EL lang. Uh so the hardware can
check that the uh the operating system
uh is actually doing uh correctly. uh
the
uh by checking the if uh the virtual
address within the uh range defined by E
range and if it is not uh yeah mapped to
EPC then the hardware can detect.
So it is direct mapping but if uh this
address cannot be allocated to EPC then
it it needs to be stored in the DM but
it is through a different mechanism.
I yeah I will explain this later in uh
following slide
and there are some other critical data
structures that are maintained by uh
SGXT uh TCB
uh the Sic that is SJX enclave control
structure stores very uh critical data
about one inclave application that
includes the dedicated PC pages uh and
some uh ID and some uh yeah information
the uh management operations
and TCS stands for thread control
structure that enables concurrent
execution within uh inclaves.
So each TCB stored in a dedicated EPC
page for thread management. NSSA
uh stands for state save area and it
securely stores the context of the
hardware uh uh in hardware. So uh this
SSA plays a critical role when context
is switched. If the context is not uh
securely switch it then what can happen
is that the uh after finishing the
execution of trusted part of the enclave
application
uh when it is switched out and if the
next uh process is an untrusted
application then if the context remains
then the untrusted application may
uh yeah extract uh some sensitive
information from the rem uh yeah
unerased
uh uh context information. For example,
uh the register values are very obvious
to be erased or initialized but there
could be some remaining information like
uh overflow or uh status bits. So uh
this information must be erased and uh
there are some vulnerabilities
reported vulnerabilities in uh context
switching of the SGX. So for example the
uh branch prediction the branch
prediction uh information is not um yeah
uh cleared that means uh whether this
branchy is predicted to be taken or not
this information can be uh accessed uh
by untrusted application. So that that
is that is because that some resources
are uh not strictly isolated.
So uh we we will also discuss this this
kind of uh vulnerabilities
uh later uh but uh yeah in general the
hardware uh should uh should maintain uh
the secure context switching. So SSA is
uh intended to provide uh secure context
switching
and in some case if the uh EPC the page
cache is not enough to store all the
pages uh then we have to evict some part
of the uh some yeah memory pages to the
unprotected memory region. So this is
the and if the uh evicted page uh is
stored in unprotected region then that
pages might be swapped to the disk.
So yeah if that happens then the
unauthorized applications may access the
uh yeah memory page. So that should be
protected by encryption.
So there are some um yeah special
instruction to uh maintain the status of
the uh evicted uh yeah uh EPC uh the the
memory pages of enclave application. It
is any yeah memory pages is uh initially
free and uh this ecreate
instruction uh is used to generate a
enclave then the pages yeah it is
currently in use that means the valid
bit is now set but if it is need to be
evicted to the unprotected region of the
memory this uh instruction uh is used.
So uh it is it should be currently
blocked and uh so and also uh if e
remove this instruction is executed then
it is now uh it is now freed. So uh the
ch the status the status changes to the
free state.
And if we look at uh the instructions a
little bit detail the eB block this
instruction precisely speaking in marks
some pages for eviction and uh and at
the same time it prevents new TLB
entries from being created for blocked
page. So the TLB also need to be
maintained when cleared when the context
switching happens. So uh it it does not
because it is uh yeah supposed to be
evicted. So it is not uh uh yeah cached
by the TLB and ERA instruction uh tracks
which logical processors need to need
TLB flushes before eviction can safely
proceed uh proceed. So uh this uh yeah
because the as I just mentioned when
context switching happens the TLB may
have uh some uh yeah it does not have
actually sensitive information but it
may be exploited. So the it should be uh
cleared flushed. So this instruction uh
by using this one we can keep track of
uh which uh which logical process need
TB flies and EWB is actually the uh
instruction that encrypts and makes the
uh page contents. Here MANG means method
authentication code. Even though we
encrypt the data uh it does not
guarantee the uh integrity of the
encrypted data. If the encrypted data is
modified we can anyways decrypt the data
because uh it is just binary and yeah if
we correctly yeah we we don't know
whether the uh decrypted data is
actually valid or not. it is just
binary. So, uh there must be some uh
authentication code included.
So, uh after decryting the data and uh
tries to match the decoded
authentication code, if only if that
decoded authentication code matches, we
know that this data has not been
modified. the integrity has been
preserved. So uh this instruction uh uh
not only encrypts but add some message
authentication code
and uh this by using these instructions
we can load the uh evicted pages back to
the EPC. So it is kind of a reverse uh
does reverse operation from EWB.
And because the virtual to physical
memory translation is managed by the
untrusted uh operating system, there
must be some guide uh guide rails that
uh protect or ensure the uh mapping is
done correctly.
So uh
so this one is already I already
mentioned that the mapping should be
always the e lang uh the memory pages in
the e lang must be uh uh mapped to the
EPC pages and uh the page table. So this
is ensured by the checking the page
table. So the SGX always verifies the
address translation to ensure uh the
sudden uh this kind of uh yeah
requirements
and uh
the SGX also as a part of isolation the
SGX also yeah prevent some malicious
operating system from um memory mapping
attacks. So uh what I may just mention
is that the virtual memory used by the
enclave always should be mapped to the
uh physical pages in EPC but uh other
the types of text also available uh
untrusted application the voucher page
of untrusted application may be mapped
to the physical page in EPC. See in that
case the unauthorized untrusted
application uh can access the data used
by the uh yeah uh trusted application.
So this should not happen. So this is
also checked by the hardware.
So the hardware checks both uh the
physical memory mapping uh attack and uh
the virtual memory uh the phys the
virtual uh pag mapping attack.