When we design a processor, we always to
consider the economics
uh because we if we cannot expect the
enough revenue out of producing a new
processor then yeah there is no reason
to design a new processor. So it's all
about money. So what what actually
impact on the uh cost here? Cost means
manufacturing cost of a processor not
only processor but or yeah in general
yeah semiconductor. So the first thing
we have to consider is the time it is
actually technologically
uh it is related with yield. Here yield
means the
success rate. So uh this is because
because we are using very small scale
technology nanoscale technology the
humans cannot control all the physical
phenomena. uh even though we are using
the same wafer the same uh facility the
same design some chips work but some
chips don't we cannot control some
factors be cannot be controlled
so the yield here means the number of
good chips over the number of total
manufactured chip
If the success rate the yield is too low
then uh the manufacturing cost is
obviously increased.
So uh if it is too low then it is called
that this technology is not stable
and if the yeah yield is low then it
will take more time to produce the
expected amount of expected number of uh
chips. So it takes more time. So it is
one factor. The other one is volume.
Yeah, it is not just semiconductor but
in yeah many mass production systems the
volume if yeah as volume increases the
the cost the cost per unit here uh is
likely to decrease. So the rule of thumb
the rule of thumb means the uh empirical
uh yeah rule uh says that the cost the
cost per unit is decre uh decreasing
about 10% for each doubling uh of volume
and the last one is uh commoditization
uh it it is related with the
competition. If we can easily replace
one component of your system with
another one then the vendor of that
particular component is likely to
compete and offer the best offer.
Otherwise uh the yeah you if you don't
have any choice then the vendor will
charge you as much as they want because
you cannot yeah change it to uh another
uh component. So uh this is one another
factor that affect uh the uh yeah
manufacturing cost.
And if we look at the manufacturing cost
in more uh detail uh we have to consider
some uh yeah factors. The first one is
the cost of a die here. Dye yeah you you
can see the uh the photo of a wafer
actually wafer is usually you know
sucker form and uh one dye. Yeah. Here
for example this is called a die. This
will be uh packaged and produced as a uh
chip. So uh within a d within a wafer
you will have many uh dice. So uh the uh
yeah so we can uh count the dice per
wafer using this uh formula. So it is a
estimation. Here you can see this symbol
uh not not exactly but yeah
approximately because because if this
die is a rectangular then we can uh
directly uh compute the uh the the
number of dice by uh dividing the area
of a wafer by area of one dice size.
then we will get the number of dice uh
but because this is a circle not rectang
uh yeah uh rectangle. So uh we uh have
this kind of uh estimation equation.
So basically uh this is as I mentioned
this is the uh the uh size the area of
the wafer
just pi r square and this is the area of
one d. So we if we divide the total area
by the area of one dice then we will get
uh the the number of dice but
unfortunately
the dice on the these boundaries we
cannot use them because they are not
rectangular. So we can estimate the
number of dice on the border that we
cannot use by using this uh equation. So
it is basically just estimation. So this
is uh pi uh times wafer diameter uh that
is uh the length of this uh boundary and
this is the uh uh the estimate the the
uh the one yeah the this one uh one side
of the uh this uh die. So uh by dividing
uh the the whole uh length of the die at
a wafer by one side of the uh die we can
get the number of dyes on the edge. So
this but this is a estimation not exact
number. So by uh subtracting uh the
number of dice on the edge from the
total die, we can estimate the number of
dice like this.
And uh but unfortunately
not all dice work well. So we have to uh
here plug the die yield. So the cost of
one dye can be now estimated by the cost
of wafer the total wafer by dice per
wafer the number of dice but uh we have
to uh yeah multip have to multiply it by
uh the success rate die yield.
Okay. So by using this equation uh we
can estimate the uh cost of dye and uh
let's see the some example here. So if
we have 300 mm wafer this is a diameter
and one dye we want to produce uh the
size of one dye is given uh here and how
many dice. So we can just plug these
numbers to uh this equation then we will
get uh around this uh many uh dice from
that wafer.
Okay. Oh yeah.
Then how can we estimate the die yield?
Uh
the most important factor could be one
of the important factor is defect
density
because uh the chip failure means that
the chip has defect. So uh approximately
how many defects could be there within a
given area unit area that is uh defect
density.
So if the defect densities is too high
then there must yeah the yield must be
low and because of this defect density
yeah the die size actually related with
the die yield because the bigger the d
size is the more likely to have the
defect.
Yeah because yeah this defect is just
spread through across uh the wafer. So
the chance of having uh a defect is
likely to increase if the dice size
increase.
And process complexity
uh is if the process the technology the
manufacturing process is too complex
then it is likely to fail. So it is
another factor and redundancy could uh
yeah help to increase the yield. Uh it
is typically used for memory cells
because we have uh because the memory s
cells are very regular. So uh we place
memory cells more than we actually need.
For example, if we need 4 kilobyte on
memory, then we may
we may implement 5 kilobyte memory cell
then we are using only four. So if the
four one of the uh cells in the 4
kilobyte memory fails then instead of
just throwing that die away uh we can uh
use it if we can replace that failing
part of that memory with the spare 1
kilobyte because um yeah yeah we we need
4 kilobyte but we have one extra
spare memory. So if we replace the
failing segment of the memory with the
spare that works well then yeah we don't
need to throw this D away. So by using
this kind of technique uh we can boost
the yield.
So this is a formula of estimating the
yield. The D yield is uh related with
wafer yield and here defects per unit
area and die area and this is the
complexity factor.
Uh this is not a theoretical value but
the complexity factor the process
complexity factor is empirical uh value.
So let's see the example. If we have uh
this uh dice size and this is the defect
density and n is given here u the wafer
is always works well that means 100% ill
then what is the die ill
by just plugging these numbers to here
we get uh this number so about 40% of
the die work uh but unfortunately 60% %
uh fail. And when you plug these numbers
to this formula, you will need to uh be
careful with the unit here. This uh
formula works for centimeter uh yeah
centimeter uh unit. So if if the uh the
yeah numbers are given in different unit
you will need to convert that number to
cm
and the die yield manufacturing cost uh
it is only for manufacturing but in
semiconductor actually the major portion
of the cost is nonrecurring.
engineering cost. You you can just uh
consider this as a design cost
and also yeah design cost by human and
also uh in order to manufacture chips we
need to first design or manufacture the
mask. Once the mask is given then we can
produce um yeah many uh chips but the
cost of manufacturing mask is yeah
enormous. So uh this is called
nonrecurring
uh engineering cost because it is not
recurring
uh so it is called nonrecurring
engineering cost
and the other cost we have to consider
is operational cost. uh because as shown
here that in case of servers
uh we are running servers typically 24
hours per day. So the operational cost
that is typically related with the power
consumption is now as significant as the
purchase cost. So here again the power
consumption is very important factor
when we uh consider the cost as well.