Uh this is a typical
uh structure of a noise based random
number generator. This is a uh rand
random noise uh source and this could be
yeah many yeah kind many things
basically and this is a noise and then
this noise is compared to uh some
reference and the output is finally uh
sampled uh and stored uh in this D
flip-flop and then it is uh the output
is gener generated from this uh yeah D
flip-flop. So the final output is
digital output zero or one and it is uh
synchronized to a uh this clock. So uh
this analog or any kind of uh physical
natural uh phenomena can be captured uh
to a digital output. So this is very
general uh general structure of the
noise based uh random number generator
and the quality of this random number
generator depends on this noise uh
source. The noise sources uh have some
requirements. uh it should not be uh
yeah well characterized or controlled
otherwise yeah the attacker may uh
predict the output of this uh random
number generator
and uh amplification may introduce
[clears throat]
some bandwidth limitation or uh
nonlinearity
and multiple nearby uh random number
generation ator may synchronize.
So if we have only one random number
generator that could be okay and we can
yeah uh generate uh many bits as many as
uh we want. Uh so yeah if it is possible
then we need only one random number
generator that's okay but uh if we need
multiple random number generators and
they are physically located nearby then
they tends to synchronize that means
they are likely to generate the same
output. though uh that is because some
interferes
and uh even though we employ multiple uh
random number generators actually the
entropy is not high uh enough we expect.
So these are some requirements or
challenges uh that we need to address uh
when we design noise based random number
generator.
This is one example. So this part could
be uh classified as a yeah noise uh part
and in this design the t flip-flop is
used. So the how it works is that uh
whenever clock ticks uh the output
flips. So if it is currently zero the
next uh clock edge it changes to one and
the following clock edge it changes back
to zero. So it it is not depend on the
input but just whenever uh clock ticks
uh it generates it flips the output. So
this is a T flip-flop
and it is connected to this uh yeah uh
comparator and uh yeah the this is a uh
simple uh some yeah uh noise source and
uh it goes through low pass filter. Uh
so the low pass filter means very small
variations is just uh attenuated
and then by using this holding switch
and capacitor uh this is uh actually
uh uh uh holding the uh noise the the
value.
So uh during this purse uh it uh it
uh it it accumulate the uh the noise
into the capacitor and depending on how
much uh noise it accumulate uh it
generates zero or one. So uh this is uh
one example design of the noise based uh
yeah random number generator.
And this is another example uh Intel
designed this kind of random number
generator and uh it is not kind of no uh
yeah uh noise based random number
generator. uh but Intel uh actually
designs this kind of uh random number
generator and it employs two uh stable
states uh that is by uh interconnecting
these two inverters
and uh this is actually the structure of
SRM. So it works very yeah similar to
SRM SRM puff utilizes
power on randomness. So when this uh
circuit uh initially uh yeah turns on
then uh it is uh uh the output of this
circuit should saturate to logical zero
or logical one. But nobody knows which
value it saturates.
So um by using this feature we can
generate a random number.
But the challenge is this uh the
unpredictable output is uh guaranteed
only if this circuit is actually
completely symmetric.
If there is a small bias then the output
is likely to generate always the same
value.
So it is not truly random.
So yeah it is not easy to design or make
sure that everything is symmetric. So
that's the challenge of this type of
random number generator.
And this is a kind of optical uh random
number generator. This is a laser
source. And uh this is the delay of the
uh yeah purse I mean the laser and uh by
comparing their delay. So this is this
is you see this uh go through uh here
and yeah this is a a kind of copied
version and this uh measures the um
interference between these two uh yeah
uh laser uh light and then by comparing
this it generates the final uh output
digital output.
So uh I yeah frankly don't know exactly
how this circuit works but why what I
want to show you here is that um the
optical laser can be used as a noise
source for random number generator not
yeah we [clears throat] don't have to
always consider only uh digital I mean
the uh transistor based uh circuit
electrical circuit But uh some optical
uh yeah phenomenon can be used for
random number generator.
Another example of none electric uh
noise source is the quantum effect.
Theoretically uh if we can uh design
this kind of uh quantum based random
number generator theoretically it could
be perfect uh because the
the probability of generating zero or
one is perfectly uh 50/50. So it is
completely unpredictable but yeah in
reality it is not [clears throat] easy
to design but anyways theoretically this
is very good candidate for the uh true
random number generator. This is one
example of such a um quantum based
random number generator.
Uh this this is uh called beam splitter.
So this light comes here and the photons
have uh some polarizing
uh polarized. So they uh spin either uh
in clockwise or counterclockwise
but the uh the probability of their uh
polarization direction uh is just
equally uh uh yeah random just split in
half. So by using this v this phenomenon
uh in this design the beam splitter is
employed. So depending on the
polarization
uh yeah direction uh it classifies
uh if the uh it classifies the photons.
So if the polarization is horizontal
then it goes to this path and if it is
vertical then it goes to this path. So
uh the photon is uh split uh to
different path depending on the uh
direction of the polarization.
Then uh it is uh feed into this switch
and depending on which uh way the photon
comes it generates zero or one. So in
this way we can generate zero or one
based on the polarization status of the
photon and theoretically it is just half
and half. So it is perfect random uh
generator.
So this is another example of uh
utilizing other types of natural
phenomenon to generate a true random
number.