The trusted platform module in short TPM
uh is one of HSM hardware security
module and it is maintained by trusted
computing group and it is standardized.
So that's why uh I believe it is the
most popular HSM
and the other reason is that it is um
adapted by Windows.
So anyways, it is a kind of HSM and uh
it is a low cost security model module
that delivers the foundation of a safe
computing environment and it is
basically HSM that means uh it can
securely generate protect store uh the
uh encryption keys
and as like other HM HSMs uh it is
implemented as a temporistant integrated
circuit hardware and also the memory
and uh the TPM allows users to uh assess
the trusty worthiness of computers uh
they interact with. That means uh it
allows users to authenticate the
hardware
before using the hardware. So so that it
can uh it can uh pave the path for
secure computing because it is the
hardware is the foundation of any
computing. So uh by using the TPM we can
uh verify the authenticity of the
hardware platform
and the basic functions include uh some
secure access to memory and registers.
Uh the memory can memory and registers
are accessed only through a limited uh
functionalities. So uh even though the
host system is compromised, the
compromised host cannot uh do uh cannot
temper with the TPM other than the
provided API. This uh drastically reduce
the OTC surface and uh it it yeah offers
integrity measurement. Uh then uh by
checking the integrity uh we can
authorize the hardware platform and uh
the it also provides secure storage and
reporting uh capabilities.
So very uh good examples of using TPM is
the Windows. So I believe that since uh
Windows 8 the uh subsequent versions of
Windows uh employ the TPM for secure
booting. not not just the secure booting
but the chain of trust and uh the self
encrypting drives often employ TPM
uh I say often but because not all the
uh yeah drives here drives means hard
disk drive and also SSD solid state
drive the self encrypting drives means
full in full disk encryption. So the
full disk Yeah. If the drive uh supports
full disk encryption that means every
data in that storage drive is encrypted
and the encryption is done by dedicated
hardware. So the performance overhand is
very low and the encryption key is
managed by TPM or any other kind of uh
hardware security module.
And because we are encrypting everything
uh this usually
uh divide into two uh process. So by
using one uh global key which is often
called media encryption key every data
is encrypted. So all data are uh
encrypted using one key and then but it
is encrypted but not separated isolated.
So for isolation
uh some part of the me uh drive is
encrypted by different keys. In this way
we can separate or isolate the disk
space.
Uh how to separate the disk space? Uh it
depends on the uh vendor of the drive.
uh but typically it is encrypted with
different keys and the key itself is
encrypted again and then stored
somewhere in the drive. Then uh the
uh
key used to encrypt key is called key
encryption key. It is also stored in
TPN.
So in this way if not then what what is
the problem is that it is not easy to
manage the keys. If the driver itself
does not maintain the key then the keys
I mean the I I'm not saying the media
encryption key it is just one but the uh
yeah multiple keys that isolate the disk
space those keys must be stored
somewhere in the host system.
Then the host where can they store those
keys?
disk drive, right? So anyways, those
keys must be stored in the drive
otherwise if the keys are just stored in
the main memory then yeah when the power
goes off then the keys will be erased.
So we cannot th those keys must be
stored anyways in the drive. So that's
why the hardware the driver itself keeps
the key
but then uh we need to secure the keys
so the keys are uh encrypted and then
that encryption key is stored in TPM. So
that that's why we have this kind of
multiple keys
and the mobile security Windows 8 phone
uh employs TPM uh for yeah protection of
device and some authorization keys and
so on. uh but in mobile devices
uh because the mobile devices are not
kind of standard.
So uh the manufacturers
actually employ different kinds of
hardware security modules.
But the hard hardware security module
could be TPM but not always. But in case
of Windows because the Windows 8 already
employs TPM for secure booting. So the
window 8 based phones also employs uh
TPM. But mobile security yeah because it
is vendor specific. So the vendors
different vendors may have a different
kind of uh HSM.
This is a typical uh TPM architecture.
It includes IOB block that is an
interface uh with the host system and
nonvolatile uh storage that includes the
stores the endorsement key and storage
loot key that kind of long-term uh keys
and it also has cryptographic engines
actual computation engines like SHA RSA
Okay. Or some Yeah. Uh
I am not sure for now but the recent
version of TPM also support uh the ECC
based uh cryptographic engines because
nowadays the ECDSA kind of uh
cryptographic algorithms are more
popular and the platform configuration
registers are uh this is some kind of
software interface uh because I The IO
block is actually UART IQC that kind of
uh singular level interface but the the
PCR they are registers that are
accessible through by the software
running on the software running on the
host system. So the software on the host
system is interacting with TPM by
occasing these registers. That's what I
meant by software interface.
The endorsement key is the main key, the
foundation of trust in TPM because the
endorsement key is unique to each TPM
and before shipping TPMS, each TPM is
programmed with a unique endorsement
key. So by using this endorsement key we
can uh uniquely identify TPM. So uh that
is a foundation and then by using this
endorsement key uh the TPM generates a
testation identity keys for uh proving
the uh establishing the ownership uh
process. So the ownership process means
that uh the ownership process binds
particular TPM with particular platform.
The TPM is a kind of just component to a
system. So the system once it is
equipped with a TPM it it uh uh
identifies and authenticates TPM. TPM
also TPM identifies and authenticates
the uh owner
uh owner uh host. So uh the
identification of the TPM is done based
on this endorsement key
and the uh PDR
are uh some registers
and about half of the PCRs are just
reserved for TPM. M. So TPM is using uh
the half of the PCRs but the rest of the
registers can be used for the operating
system and applications. So uh these uh
uh remaining registers are uh playing as
an interface with the external world.
what the what TPM does is basically the
same with what HSM
do. So it can uh generate and store
cryptographic keys in hardware and it
never leaves TPM and it is used by the
cryptographic engine inside the TPM
and uh the hardware the TPM
uniquely
identifies hardware. Uh yeah because uh
it has unique uh endorsement key
and only safe actions are allowed. That
means we can encrypt the data with a key
uh but
uh the host system cannot read the key
directly.
So these are just basic operations
provided by any kind of hardware uh
security module.
So the hardware authentication
especially is to address the existing
um yeah concerns
traditional security flaw
because existing security systems
usually implemented in software is
running on unknown hardware. when the
developers of the security solutions
uh are uh implementing their solution in
software they don't know where their
solution will run on.
So if the system including the hardware
is compromised then uh the private keys
cannot be uh fully protected especially
filebased security approaches may have
this kind of issues. So before learning
these uh security solutions we need to
check the authenticity
of the hardware platform. If the TPM uh
is employed then uh we can verify the
platform by checking the identity of
TPM.
So yeah,
uh the OTC always has a limited uh
capability because the TPM allows only
limited uh yeah APIs. So um the uh yeah
we can protect the data in the TPM and
also TPM can authenticate the hardware
reserve by using uh the endorsement key.
So once TPM is employed it is yeah
deactivated initially and then uh from
the owner owner host system uh the owner
host system activates the ownership
process. Then uh by uh when the
ownership process is done then uh key
pair is established and by checking this
key pair uh the host system and the TPM
can now uh authenticate each other.
So in this way uh the TPM can fully uh
securely bind uh with the host system.