we can use a path for a random number
generation.
Uh so in this sub chapter we will
discuss how to use the puff as a true
random number generator. So what why we
need this random numbers uh that is uh
described in in this slide.
Uh obviously for cryptography random
number is very often used uh especially
as a nuns. Nun is used to prevent a
replay attack because uh the nun uh
guarantees the freshness of the uh any
communication data and uh if whenever a
new message is sent the nons is attach
it so that that that uh same message
cannot be reused in the future.
There are actually uh some uh incidents
that uh
that was uh yeah attributed to the uh
predictable uh nons. So uh for example
uh some credit cards uh the uh the uh
their authentication mechanism is based
on uh challenge and response protocol.
Then [snorts]
uh the when a challenge is given they
should be fresh. Otherwise the attackers
can uh observe and record the challenge
and response pairs. Then uh if the same
challenge happens to be generated then
the um attacker can uh yeah reproduce
the response or uh even worse case is
this uh the attacker can actually
predict the response if the prover use
uh just predictable random number.
So uh I don't actually remember very
precisely but uh this kind of authentic
protocol was implemented some system uh
and uh the standard uh actually doesn't
dictate that this nons should be random.
So they just use the random as a
increasing uh some some kind of sequence
number. So the nons is just increasing
uh by one every time it yeah uh performs
the uh protocol. So uh the noise can be
predicted
by exploiting this uh information. The
arter uh could bypass this
authentication mechanism. So uh the
unpredictable random number is sometimes
uh critical to make sure that these
cryptography based uh mechanisms are
secure
and the next use case could be uh
scientific computing. It is well known
that Monte Carlo algorithm uh can be
used for uh to solve NP hard problems.
So MP hard problems you know uh it
cannot be uh efficiently solved within
polomial time. In that case by using
Monte Carlo algorithm uh we can reduce
the uh amount of uh yeah computation.
But if this random number is not uh uh
yeah not well distributed then the
result from the Monte Carlo algorithm is
not uh as good as the uh actual
solution. So uh in this case the quality
of the random number is very important.
And um so gaming rotaries they also need
a fair uh yeah random number system. So
uh here again uh the quality of the
random number is very crucial and if for
example gaming or lottery rotary uh if
the random number is predictable then
yeah there must be someone who exploit
that things.
So yeah true random number is crucial
for these applications.
But in many um uh yeah computing systems
uh it is not easy to generate actual
true random number. So sudo random
number is very often used. So the pseudo
random number generator
uh is uh utilizes a uh polyomial time
computable function
that what that function does is
basically expands a short random
string to a wrong string that appears
random.
So the uh base uh short random number is
called seed. So from the seed it
generates random number not random
number but some numbers then look like
random.
So it is naturally random because it is
deterministic
and that depends on the initial value
seed. So if the same seed is given then
the sequences of the uh generated
numbers are predictable
but it is still useful because uh good
uh pseudo random number generator uh
still guarantees that uh even though the
article record some uh sequences of the
output uh it is very difficult to
predict the next one
and the computation time
the generation of the random number uh
is very fast. So anyways it is still
good but uh if the seed is exposed or
the function is exposed then the
attacker could um yeah there is a
potential issue.
So the puff could be a source of the
true random number generation.
The puff is based on the physical
phenomena uh especially the variations
then but the variation could be delay
variation or some voltage variation or
metastability that there are many
physical phenomena that we can use for
uh entropy.
So it is based on the physical uh
natural parameter. Uh it is it should be
impossible to algorithmically
generate the number. Uh actually that
means the articles cannot predict the
next uh yeah the next uh random number.
So in this uh slide uh this yeah this
picture shows one example uh that
generates a random number uh based on
some radioactive radiation. Basically
there are some uh requirements for uh
good uh true random number. The entropy
uh source must have high entropy.
It could be for example some thermal sh
noise. Yeah brownian motion nuclear
decay. This kind of physical phenomenon
can be used as a randomness
and uh we need some mechanism to harvest
this kind of u physical phenomenon from
this physical uh natural phenomenon uh
to generate a random number
and this mechanism does not disturb the
physical process otherwise for example
uh If we want to measure the entropy uh
the measurement process can for example
uh destroy or degrade the physical
process then we cannot use it for a long
time. So that is the requirement of the
harvesting mechanism and if necessary
the some postprocessing mechanism could
be uh employed.
some for example some mask uh
imperfections in entropy sources or uh
some tolerance uh if we need uh uh some
tolerance to the uh tempering or
environmental change. So this is just
pro postprocessing if necessary
and typically we are using the true
random number generator by a digital
logic digital circuit or processor
modern uh computing systems are
typically digital systems. So uh the
design should be digital
at least the output of the random number
generator should be digital and the
harvesting mechanism should be simple.
Yeah, it is for just cost efficiency. If
it is too complicated or require too
much hardware cost then it is not likely
to be employed. So the harvesting
mechanism should be simple so that we
can reduce the uh implementation
overhead.
So that means compact and efficient
design uh will be uh desirable.
Uh and this also benefits uh us that in
that the uh analysis could be possible.
Yeah. If yeah we we it takes too much
time and effort to analyze very complex
u yeah circuit. So uh if we have a
simple design then uh we can uh
thoroughly uh analyze the uh uh the
quality of that true random number
generator. Three.