You can regard TDX module as a
hypervisor in the sim mode. In other
words, a kind of a trusted hypervisor.
So as you can see in this diagram, the
TDX module uh is actually corresponds to
the hypervisor in the normal mode. So
the TDX module is inside the SIM module
which is under the protection of uh
Intel uh TDX. So this is a software
module and it is Intel signed and CPU
tested software module. So uh and this
is uh designed to leverages uh
leveraging the uh security features of
the uh TDX processor.
And the TDX module has uh two sets of
interface functions. One is for the host
side interface for uh the hypervisor
outside of the sim mode. So this one and
uh this interface uh is using sim core
and sim return.
So by calling sim core the hypervisor in
the normer mode can uh put a request to
the TDX module and the uh hypervisor can
the result from the TDX module through
uh sim return and the other interface is
for the uh TDS. So this includes VM
launch TD core. So the TDX module can uh
put a request to the TD the virtual
machine using BM launch. So this is
basically uh just initiating the virtual
machine uh and the TD the virtual
machine can uh put a request to the TDX
module kind of hypervisor by using the
TD core.
The TDX module is loaded uh in a two
steps.
The MPC loader this is the root root of
trust. So this is uh kind another kind
of software module uh Intel
authentication authenticated
code module ACM. So all ACMs are Intel
signed modules uh then run within the
internal RAM of the processor and it is
a kind of uh yeah software and uh it is
uh authenticated
by Intel trusted execution technology
TXT. So this is an old technology but uh
now it is integrated with TDX. So uh by
using this technology uh this uh Intel
authenticated code module uh is verified
and uh this place as a root of trust and
from here it verifies and load pim
loader and then it actually lose TDX.
after verifying the integrity of the
TDX. So it is a twole loading process
steps uh to for uh the TDX module.
The TDX module uh is responsible for
managing the entire life cycle of TDS uh
and it also maintains the metadata for
each TD instance. So here this is the
global data structure for the TD uh TDX
module. So uh there is one TDX module uh
and uh the TDX module has one uh global
key. So this data structure is protected
by the global TDX key and these other
data structures highlighted with green.
These data structures are in uh
maintained uh separately for each TD.
Therefore, each TD has its own key and
these data structures the metadata is
encrypted uh by that uh key. So uh order
uh this is a cryptograph cryptographical
isolation of the metadata.
There are many uh fields in this
metadata but let me go through uh so
some uh important uh data structures.
First one is uh TDR that stands for
trust domain root. So this is the main
data structure for the maintained by the
TDX module and it uh includes the
encryption key information and TDCX
uh references and uh it is protected by
the global private key of the TDX
module. And the next one is TDCS control
structure and uh this is for uh TD
management. So uh it includes MSR the uh
uh status register and uh SCP
uh the secure uh extended page table
root and uh this inc this uh data
structure is encrypted with the uh uh TD
private key
and the next one is uh TDVPN
destin for virtual processor uh state it
is it is in the BCPS scope that means uh
this is stored uh this is an
architectural state of the processor so
uh these are uh some hardware uh
registers
so it includes uh uh some uh yeah this
kind of uh yeah uh data structures And
the security PT is uh the EP means the
extended page table uh that is used to
translate the virtual memory to the
physical memory. Uh and because this is
a CQP that means it is protected by the
uh the private key.
So uh even though the untrusted
hypervisor
uh or the uh the the untrusted operating
system uh manages the page table uh
because the this is encrypted by the uh
private key uh of the TD and uh in the
TDX the hypervisor the TDX module
actually place a uh uh place uh as a
hypervisor. So uh the address
translation by the hypervisor is
performed by uh the TDX module. So uh
here uh because this is about the
virtual uh machine uh there are two uh
steps of address translation. The
virtual address of the guest system is
translated to the physical address of
the virtual machine. Virtual uh virtual
yeah guest machine. Uh that is done by
operating system. the guest operating
system and the uh physical address of
the guest machine now is translated to
the physical address of the host
machine. This is done by the hypervisor
and the uh TDX module uh is actually
does this job uh in the uh TDX TDX
Hypervisor TDX module and all the TDS
virtual machines are software. So uh if
we run all of them on a limited number
of physical processes processors then we
need to uh switch their context. Then uh
because it is a trusted execution
environment, we have to uh be careful
when the context switching occurs
because if the uh states of the
protected application remain uh after
context switching then uh from those
information uh some info you know
sensitive information may leak.
So uh first let's look at the uh uh the
context switching between the hypervisor
and TDX module. In TDX a hypervisor is
uh required to interact with the TDX
module uh for managing the TDS.
Uh for this uh the sim call interface
functions are used. When the function uh
sim call is made uh the trans processor
transitions from the BMX rune mode to
the simx root mode as you may remember
in the previous slide and uh the TDX
modules SIM transfer BMCS the virtual
machine control structure is loaded
so that for the corresponding
TD. So this uh V CMS uh is for uh yeah
is managed uh for each TD
and this VMS is a means of switching the
context execution context between the
hypervisor and the TDX module. And here
the diagram shows that how the uh uh the
TDX module finds the corresponding uh
SIM transfer VC VCMS. So based on the uh
the base address uh each SIM transfer
VCMS uh the size of each BCMS is 4
kilobyte. So uh by using uh this index
uh the ttx module can find where the
corresponding vcms is loaded.
Then uh we also need to look at the
context switching between TD and TDX
module. In traditional virtualization,
the hypervisor handles uh VM exits and
uh that is controlled by uh the VM's
transfer VMS
and uh the problem with this approach is
that the VMS
uh contains the CPU state. That means uh
if we don't trust the hypervisor then
the hypervisor can observe the current
state the CPU state and this is the
problem if the uh virtual machine is
under protection and we need to uh keep
it confidential then in that case uh uh
revealing its CPU states to the
untrusted hypervisor could be a problem.
So in TDX this uh mechanism
uh yeah here is the mechanism that is a
little bit different from the
conventional uh virtualization.
uh the when the call is made from the TD
then it is designed to trap into the TDX
module and uh it is controlled by TD
transfer CMS. So this TD transfer BCMS
with is within the SIM mode and it is
encrypted by the um by the TD's private
key. So uh because it is encrypted by
TD's private key and the private key is
not exposed to the hypervisor. So uh uh
TD transfer VCNS is not accessible. uh
by the untrusted hypervisors. So in this
way in TDX uh the context switching
information uh is uh is kept uh to be
confidential.
The uh TDX or main has a mechanism uh
which is called keyhorse. This is for uh
the sharing data.
So some memory buffers need to be used
to pass data through SIM course. In that
case uh we the uh the TDX module need to
map
is uh internal address space to the
buffer. So uh this is done by uh using
the keyhole. The keyhole region is a
reserved region address range within the
address space of TDX module. So it can
be used uh as a reference to the buffer
uh which is used uh yeah between uh the
TDX module and the hypervisor.