When we design a system, the
dependability is very critical
especially for the uh s servers because
if we fails then the down cost uh would
be uh very significant.
Historically long time ago uh integrated
circuits were among the most reliable
computer components. uh but because of
the feature size shrinks um nowadays it
is not
uh as reliable as before. So we have to
uh consider the uh how we can uh make
the chips work uh reliably or at least
we need to uh estimate
how often the chip or the any component
in the system fail.
So because a system consists of many
different uh components then the failure
of a module one level could be uh just
considered as a component error in
higher level and we can develop some
kind of um u some kind of uh uh deal uh
method that can uh deal with a failure.
For example, a fault tolerant system
typically employ uh redundant components
so that if anyone fails then we can
replace replace the uh fault component
with a um yeah uh with a uh with a sound
component immediately. So it is often
called fault tolerance system or it is
also called duplication.
So uh in this way we can make or even
though any component fails we can make
the whole system still working uh
correctly.
So one way to measure the reliability is
to use the meanantime to failure. So
this is uh the this means that if we
have longer meanantime to failure that
means uh we
it works uh we can expect this amount of
time without any failure. So the this is
the meaning of this one and the we can
invert this one as in failures in time.
So this is the expected number of
failures per billion hours of operation.
So uh for example if we have 1 million
hours MTF that means we are expecting
then this component works uh for 1
million hours on average without any
failure. So this is one metric and it
can be equally converted by or to 1,000
uh failures in time uh 1,000 failures in
billion hours of operation. So uh if
this fit number is high then means it is
more likely to fail.
So basically these two metric are uh
measuring the reliability of any
component but in different uh
perspective
and this is a metric for reliability and
the other one is availability that is
even though if any component fails then
we have to repair or replace that
component with a new one. So uh we are
we another we have another uh metric
that is called meanantime to repair
that means if any component fails uh
during this time period the component
doesn't work. So this is basically the
interrupt uh interruption duration. So
the meantime D2 failures can be defined
by MTTF plus MTTR.
So uh uh if we have these two numbers
then we can uh estimate the module
availability by using uh this equation.
So uh using these equations we can
expect how long our system can work uh
without any failure.
Let's take a look at this example. Let's
assume a disk subsystem
with these components. It has 10 discs
each rated at 1 million hour MTF and one
ata controller power supply fan and
cable and each component has this uh uh
MTTF. Then uh if we assume that the
lifetimes are exponentially distributed
and failures are independent then how we
can compute the MTF? Uh simply speaking
we if we have multiple components then
we can uh compute the MTPF as if they
are just totally independent. And the
next failure is also independent from
the previous failure. It it is not in
real situation it may not because once
it once any component fail then it is
usually likely to u be fragile more
fragile. That means the empty f is
likely to be shortened
but we for simplicity uh we don't assume
that so all the failures are basically
independent
then we can compute the MTF in this way
to uh aggregate the MTF we use this
failure rate instead of MTA DTA then uh
the failure rate means given the time
period how many times it is likely to
fail. So uh because the disk each disk
has 1 million hours of MTTF that means
if we uh invert this number then this is
the estimation of how many uh how many
how many failures are expected during
the uh given time period. Here it is uh
yeah 1 million hour and because we have
10 discs then uh we are just simply
adding up uh because uh this is failure
rate. So if any of any disk out of 10
disks uh fails then uh it is uh the
failure of the whole system. So we are
just adding and adding all the failure
rates in the system in this way and
finally we get this number this number
and this is uh estimated that we are
expecting 23 failures per 1 million hour
and if we change it to fit then the uh
uh the basis becomes the billion
So we are multiplying 23 by 1,000 then
this is what we have. So in uh in the
unit of fit then the MTF is simply the
invert of the failure rate. Then this is
the MTTF. It means that on average we
expect this system to work for uh 33,000
hours without any uh failure
and let's assume that uh we want to
increase the MTF by uh re uh by adding a
redundant component. So for example here
uh we are adding one more uh power
supply and uh we assume that just one
power supply is sufficient to run the
disk uh subsystem. That means uh even if
we have two uh power supplies
and if any of them works well then the
whole system will work
and yeah the power supply uh has 200 uh
thousand hour of MTF and in order to
replace one power supply it takes 24
hours. So 24-hour MTTR
then uh we can uh estimate the MTPTF
over the redundant power supply uh by uh
by using this equation. So the the this
is the meantime failure until one power
supply fails
because we have two power supply. So
yeah you can uh think of that uh the
failure rate because we have two then
the failure rate well simply doubles
because uh if any of them fails then it
is anyways failure. So in terms of
failure rate it doubles. In other words
if it is inverted in terms of meanantime
failure then uh it is divided by two. So
this is the meanantime failure rate or
meanantime failure uh of the two power
supplies. Then uh in order to compute
the meanantime failure we also uh think
about this because if both
both power supplies should work
correctly then this is the uh simply the
MTF of the two power supplies but this
is a redundant system and one power
supply is enough to uh run the whole
disk subsystem. So even though one of
them fails those systems still work. So
the MTF of this power supply uh yeah it
it doesn't mean that it is failure
because uh only if both power supply
fail then it is actually failure and uh
because we can replace one of them while
uh the other one works correctly. though
uh the actual failure occurs when one uh
power supply fails and until it is
repaired if the other one also fails
then it is actual failure. So we can
estimate that um that uh chance the
probability by uh by uh dividing
uh the meanantime
meanantime uh MTR meanantime to repair
by uh divided by uh MTTF of one uh power
supply because uh if you draw this one.
So this is the uh range uh the time
period of repair and if MTF is very uh
within this for example then uh it is
very likely to fail
but if it is long enough so this is
empty
and this is empty.
So uh if this is long enough then uh the
chance the the chance of failure
during this time
can be locally estimated by this
equation. this uh MTTR divided by MTTF
and uh by yeah uh dividing this MTTF of
the two power supplies uh by the chance
of another failure before the first one
is repaired. Uh this is the uh MTTF of
the actual uh uh the redundant uh power
supplies. Okay. So, uh by using this uh
we can uh and by yeah and after
simplifying this equation to this and
then plug the numbers here then this is
what we have. As you can see the
meanantime failure is actually very uh
significantly increased. If we add one
more component. So this is typical uh
way to increase uh the MTTF but still
the cost will be doubled but uh the MTF
will be anyways increased.