When an enclave application is created,
it is created by ecreate instruction.
This is a special instruction for uh SGX
and it loads a new SEC data structure
into a free EPCG.
So this is the uh foundation of the new
enclave and then it actually load code
and data into the uh enclave memory
space. So uh it is using e and e extend
instructions to load coden data and uh
uh while it is loading data the uh it is
updating the inclave measurements that
is for uh the checking the integrity of
the coden data
and the e init instruction finalizes the
inclave enabling execution and
preventing further loading operations.
So uh it is done by uh the
initialization is done by this eunit uh
instruction and then it actually begins
uh ex uh the execution. Then uh after
finishing it execution the E remove
instruction uh freeze the EPC pages and
uh destroy the enclave uh and finish the
enclave life cycle. If we see the same
some some same same operation in as uh
um the state transition diagram that is
shown on the top right of this slide. So
from this is the beginning state and by
using the E create state uh it is uh
some new memory space the EPC is
allocated for this enclave and the
memory is currently not initialized and
by using these commands the uh necessary
code and data is stored and after
finishing the loading then by using this
instruction Now uh it is uh initialized
uh but it is not directly uh run here uh
because the inclive application consists
of trusted part and untrusted part and
the application always begin from the
untrusted part and while it is running
if we need to execute the trusted part
then it in use this e enter into uh the
uh the the inclave application.
So it is uh used and while it is running
it is accessing memory pages and doing
everything and if necessary it may evict
the data by using this instructions and
so on and then finally uh not finally
may not be finally uh but it exit from
the inclave region to the untrusted
region and it may come back to the yeah
trust region. And yeah, this may just
keep going on going and forth and then u
yeah finally if uh if the application
terminates from the untrusted part and
then by using this e remove instruction
uh it is now uh freed
when the inclave when the application
enters into the enclave uh trusted part
it is synchronous so by using the e
enter instruction it is controlled jump
jump into the predefined address so uh
it is relatively easier to protect but
in case of exit it could be either
synchronous or asynchronous ous
synchronous exit is possible because the
e exit instruction uh allows us exit
just yeah you know as a yeah as a
regular uh path but asynchronous uh exit
means some kind of exception. So when
exception occurs then uh it is uh coming
out of uh from the inlay uh operation.
So if it is uh uh this uh diagram on the
right is illustrates that kind of
situation. So uh by using the E enter it
can enter into the uh inclave
computation and by using E exit it is
synchronously
exit and uh yeah returns to the
untrusted part. But while the inclave or
trusted part is running some exception
may occur. So in that case uh because
the exception is generating some
interrupt that is handled by uh
exception handler and if we don't have
this kind of uh uh protection mechanism
this if the exception handler is
immediately called then this in
exception because the exception handler
is not uh trusted part. So the untrusted
application may uh have an access to the
uh context. though uh this asynchronous
exit uh yeah make sure that the context
information is cleared before calling
the uh exception handler
and after finishing the uh interrupt uh
handling this e resume instruction uh by
using this instruction it is coming back
to the enclave uh execution
The SGX also provide local and remote
attestation mechanism. The for the local
attestation it first establish uh the
channel. So the approval enclver obtains
verifiers inclaves measurement through a
secure communication channel. So the
approver also need uh to have the
verifiers measurement and then the
prover uh verif
uh course this e report instruction to
create a report structure. So this
structure contains the uh information
about the platform and then it is uh
yeah transmitted to the verifier. The
verifier uh checks the uh integrity and
also the contents of the report and uh
by using this uh finally the uh verifier
can verify whether the prover is running
on the uh same platform or not. So in
SUGX the local destination uh is only to
prove that the pro uh enclave is running
on the same platform with the verifier
enclave.
The remote
testation technique is an extension of
this local uh attestation. So uh it is
uh proving the enclave identity to a
remote party. For this a special enclave
quoting enclave is getting involved.
So the process is like this. the uh
challenger the verifier issues a
challenge to the uh application inclave
and then uh the uh inclave a tested uh
enclave generates the report by using
the e report instruction. This is the
same with the local attestation. But uh
here the quoting in clay is uh get
involved that signs on the report or
once more uh so that this can be uh
verified by a remote party of the uh uh
of the uh remote party in running on you
know different uh remote uh yeah uh yeah
system
and SGX also has some data sealing
mechanisms. If the data is need to be
stored in the uh storage disk or SSD
then the sealing mechanism must be uh
properly enforced. Uh so the sealing
mechanism includes the encryption of the
data and uh to simplify this process uh
the special uh file system is actually
provided. The uh Intel SUGX provides
IPFX.
IPFS that is a specialized uh file
system that handles this sealing
mechanism as if the uh application is
accessing just normal file. Uh uh
because uh uh when the
the in yeah the SGX does not trust the
operating system and the file system is
actually a part of the operating system.
So if we don't trust the file system
then uh even though we have a sealing
mechanism it is very difficult for the
programmers to access the storage
because yeah we as a programmer we are
familiar with accessing uh the storage
as file. So uh we see the storage as a
collection of files but uh if the file
system is does not exist and we don't
trust the operating system the
programmer needs to implement uh their
own uh file system. So instead of the
programmer the Intel uh provides a
special file system for uh inclave
applications.