Okay, in this video I will explain the
general trends in technology.
uh when we are looking at the trend in
the integrated circuit logic uh the
trend is the density uh density is uh
being increased by about 35% per year
and uh yeah I you don't have to remember
the the actual numbers but anyways what
is important here is that the transistor
density increases
And uh the
uh the dice size is also increasing but
dice size is increasing just slightly
because uh even even the larger die size
uh does not always good. It's not always
good because um uh because if the dice
size is too big then the the yield the
uh the failure rate the yeah can be
affected. Okay. So uh anyways the dice
size increases the transistor density is
also increasing and in case of DM also
the capacity uh is being uh increased
and uh in case of semi conductor flash
memory uh it is even
growing faster so almost doubling every
two year. uh also the cost the
manufacturing cost is is much
uh much scaling faster than the DM but
still the in in uh in terms of bite
dollar per bite uh the flesh memory is
more expensive than DM
but but still it's yeah
uh scaling down uh very quickly
And the disk technology also uh gives us
more space and uh reduced access time.
Among these trend uh what uh what would
like to note is that when we consider
bandwidth and latency actually the
improvement of the uh bandwidth
uh has uh dramatically outplaced the
latency. Here bandwidth means the uh it
is sometimes called your throughput and
is the total amount of work done in a
given time while latency or response
time is the time between start and
completion of an event. So that the
latency is the we when we say delay
usually it means latency when we request
something and the latency means the time
delay uh from the request uh until we
get the response. But the throughput
means the total amount of work that can
be done in a given time. That means
there could be many requesters in the
system and the system can uh process all
of them or a part of them in a given
time. So that is determined by the uh
throughput or bandwidth.
So the bandwidth is actually growing
much faster than the latency. So that is
the uh uh major observation uh here.
And these are some um yeah uh
milestones. So uh when we look at the
microprocessors then uh yeah it has
grown about 25,000
times uh in terms of microprocessor
performance
and in case of memory uh yeah from 1980
to 2010
uh the bandwidth has been increased by
around 1,000 times. times but the
latency is improved only six times. So
you can here see that the bandwidth
improvement is much uh higher uh larger
than the latency improvement. And in
case of a network yeah from 1970 to 20
2010 uh it the latencies of the
bandwidth has improved uh around 10,000
times but latency is improved by about
30 uh times
and hard disk as well. So the throughput
the bandwidth has improved uh 340 times
but uh latency only uh six uh 13 times
and the size of the transistor is uh
getting smaller. So it is yeah often
called technology scaling and uh uh yeah
in 19 uh 71 uh the feature size the the
the uh minimum size of the transistor uh
used to be 10 micro micrometer but it it
it keeps shrinking and in 2011 32
nanometer 22 nanometer and Now is we are
facing three or four nanometer
technologies.
When the feature shrinks then uh
transistor density increases because
yeah we are we we are having a smaller
transistors then we can afford more
number of transistors and transistor
performance is likely to impro uh
improve. Um so the it works faster
because it gets smaller that means uh
even small changes in operation can
result in different uh yeah output. So
that means uh its performance improves
and operating voltage also is reduced
while the transistor is getting smaller
the wire cannot be. So nowadays the wire
delay is uh yeah giving us um uh some
issues because the wire cannot scale as
much as the transistor is delay the
relative portion of the delay is uh
becoming larger. So now we need to
consider the wire delay uh
yeah more uh than before. Uh but the the
the wire delay is not just simple is not
as simple as the uh transistor delay
because the wire delay is actually
affected not only by the wire itself but
its length is uh yeah is pattern I I
mean uh how well yeah geometry I can say
geometry and uh how thick how how many
uh gates are connected all of these
factors are affecting the wire delay. So
it is not easy to estimate the delay. So
anyways uh this is some of the major
issue when we design the uh
semiconductor. So we need to consider
this as a technology trend
power consumption as well. So uh
the not just power consumption but it is
related with the thermal uh heat um uh
dissipation. So if uh the semiconductor
is too hot then uh it yeah it could uh
destroy itself. So we need to cool down
the uh the yeah the the the
semiconductor IC. And in case of Intel
processor, if it has uh the uh thermal
uh thermometer uh in the processor
itself and if the temperature is too
high uh it slows it down by itself so
that the the temperature cannot go up
beyond a threshold. It protects itself
from uh the destructive uh uh yeah heat
and this is also related with power
delivery.
Yeah. So uh power is not delivered
evenly and reliably reliably then the
yeah the the chip cannot work uh
reliably. So uh how we deliver the the
power to uh the components in the system
is also very critical issue. So uh yeah
so the power supply is also uh what we
have to consider when we design uh a
system.