In order to launch SUVM the secure
virtual machine uh securely three
conditions uh must be met. The first one
is the platform the hardware platform
must be verified and the second one is
the virtual machine must be authorized
to run and the last one is integrity.
I in in just my personal opinion the
second condition this is the one of the
uh outstanding
uh yeah feature because uh in order T is
usually the integrity is only verified
based on a testation techniques and uh
local attestation is also useful for
verifying the platform. column where the
inclave application is running. So uh to
some degree this the first condition is
also uh checked in order uh some other
ties but the second one uh is uh I
believe I think uh in my opinion uh it
is a an um yeah uh difference uh key
difference from other uh tees
and all of these must be checked when
the control flow enters into the secure
mode by uh ultra call of ESM.
So the platform verification uh is uh
done by the TPM and uh it involves some
uh yeah key symmetric uh seed uh uh yeah
stored in the TPM. So the TPM is a
hardware module that uh provides some
cryptographic functions uh by dedicated
hardware and the key is uh it key can be
generated and stored in the uh hardware
module. So uh it is uh for that reason
it is considered very secure uh because
uh the key in the key the private key
cannot be read by software interface. So
in only through software
attack uh there is no way to extract
keys from the TPM
and if the encryption is necessary then
only the data is sent to the TPM and the
uh the TPM the hardware it is a separate
hardware and it has its own encryption
engine. So it just returns the encrypted
data. So what is exchanged is only the
original data and encrypted data or
decrypted data. So uh the key is never
uh under the path of the communication.
So by using this TPM uh the platform
verification can be uh done
and for the virtual machine verification
SVM uh a lockbox mechanism is used. This
is also based on TPM but this is uh
intended to verify
uh whether this SUBM is authorized to
run on this particular platform and uh
in order to identify the platform
uh the TPM is uh yeah uh used.
uh the the lock box uh is a symmetric
seed wrapped in a public key and it is
associated with a private key in the
target systems TPM. So the private key
is stored in the TPM and it is unique to
that platform and the private key is
never
uh yeah exposed to the outside.
So uh by using this mechanism we uh can
make sure that this SVM is authorized to
run on this uh particular platform.
And the verification steps include uh
the TPM extract symmetric seed from the
lock box and the form state verified
through the TPM platform configuration
register and uh this configuring
register. Yeah, this is uh a standard
function of the TPM and TPM is a uh uh
it provides a standard interface and
standard functions. Uh so uh by using
the TPM capability the PF authorize any
uh SVM uh to run on this on any uh
particular platform
and this is the process of generating
lockbox.
uh first uh we need to extract and
authenticate the TPM storage key uh from
the target machine and uh we uh validate
the platform first. So uh by by hashing
uh by using the hashy value uh the and
it is compared against the uh vendor
manifest uh we can make sure that this
hardware uh is provided from a trusted
vendor and then now we can move on to
generating the lockbox. So the lockbox
is a symmetric seat and it is encrypted
by the public key of the TPM and TPM the
hardware itself
uh yeah encrypts the symmetric key uh by
uh public key and the generated uh
encrypted seed is now inserted uh into
the uh ESM operand of SBM so that when
the Assubu EM launches uh it can be uh
yeah verified.
The local attestation process is very
similar to other uh yeah TE is uh and uh
yeah so actually the local attestation
includes the verification and
authorization of the SVM. So uh it
generates
uh hm key and symmetry key from the
seed. So this seed is from the uh the
lockbox mechanism and then checks the
operand payload first to verify the
integrity of the operand and then uh the
uh by using the symmetric key we can get
the integrity data and then verify
actually and then uh we can validate
components using uh this symmetric key.
And this is a booting process. And this
booting process is also uh kind of
standard chain of trust. So uh it begins
with immutable code and it goes through
uh several steps and before moving on to
the next step
it always checks the uh verifies the
integrity of the next step. So for
example here so this is boon loader
before jumping into the boon loader
mutable boon loader this immutable it is
uh kind of uh hardwired or stored in the
room so it cannot be modified and the uh
immutable boot code uh checks the
integrity of mutable book bootloader and
then uh
Yeah, before jumping into the host
bootloader, this mutable bootloader
checks the integrity of the host
bootloader and so forth. But by the
integrity checking is done by using some
hardware key or CQ boot jumper. Yeah.
Yeah. Different mechanisms. But uh the
main principle here is that uh we need
to check the integrity of the next step
before jumping into the next step. So
this is a very standard uh protocol of
the uh chain of trust. So the uh IBM PF
actually employs this kind you know
secure booting mechanism.