an arbit puff is one of the
representative example of uh the pop
implementation and it uh take advantage
of the delay variation.
So it consists of a series of boxes as
shown in this slide. Uh and uh each box
uh receive a control signal uh that is a
challenge. So depending on the challenge
the path is actually formed differently.
For example, here you can see that uh
when the uh yeah first you can see that
there are series of moxies. So this is
the first stages, second staging and
yeah nth stage and each staging these
two moxins uh have uh choose one of the
path from the previous staging. So here
in this example a blue path is formed
here in this way and the uh red or
orangey path is formed yeah here in this
path and
they take a different path uh depending
on the challenging and uh
because these two path go through the
same number of moxes. So their delay
must be uh very similar
but because of the variation uh it is
not guaranteed. So uh if
the top path if blue path is faster then
we can say that uh for example so here
is this blue and orangey and this is
faster than the orangey path here and
this blue path is uh uh connected to the
data and the orange path is uh connected
to the clock and this is a d flip-flop.
So uh if this blue path is vector like
this then uh this d flip-flop fetches
the input uh at the rising edge of the
orangey uh yeah path. So it uh fetches
uh samples data at this time. So the
output becomes one. But uh if blue is uh
slower than the orangey then uh the edgy
will be uh will occur at this moment. So
uh at the rising edge of the orange path
zero will be uh yeah fetched sampled. So
uh if the blue is slower then the output
becomes zero.
So uh whether the output is one or zero
depends on the which path is faster and
uh the latency is uh heavily depend on
the uh the uh late uh the uh process
variation. So uh by using this process
variation uh in delay uh we can generate
a random number and the path uh can be
reconfigured by the challenges. So uh
here in this example the path is like
this but uh by changing the challenges
the path could be different.
So uh and if the number of stages is uh
large enough then there could be many uh
challenges so the output of this puff is
very unlikely to be uh predicted.
So uh this is one very representative
example famous example of delay puff.
Then the question is does this really
work? Then uh through experiments the
researchers actually proved that uh this
can be the orbit of can be used as a uh
stable uh uh authentic uh cater
to prove that we have to um prove two uh
aspects.
Yeah. One important uh aspect is whether
uh we can distinguish different chips
using this the uh the output of the abit
puff. Uh the the the other one is uh
whether the same chip generates the same
output uh uh yeah stably.
If the output changes from the same chip
then we cannot uh rely on these output
for authentication or identification. So
we have to check whether these two
requirements are met or not. for that uh
here in this let's say paper the authors
uh implemented actually implemented that
a top puff uh using TSMC uh foundry and
uh they applied 100 random challenges
and then measure the output.
So the challenging because uh the 100
challenges are given the generated
number of bits is 100 in total and out
of 100 they measure uh two chips x and y
and they measure the heming distance of
these responses from different chips.
And they found that the distance the
heming distance between X and Y the
different chips is about 24.
So uh out of 124 yeah it it depends but
uh if we compare this and this uh this
is large enough the difference is large
enough compared to the uh variation.
Uh so uh here let's say let's see this
one first. So when they measure the
output from the same chip the average
heming distance is less than one bit. So
yeah compared to 24bit of different chip
if it is stably keep generating the same
output but with just one bit difference
then we can distinguish we can use this
for identification of chip X. This error
rate could be tolerated by employing
some kind of error correction code. In
that case one or two bit or yeah
depending on the parameter of the uh ECC
the error correction code we can fix uh
this this number of error bits.
If these two numbers 24 and 0.9 is too
close for example uh this difference is
only two bit or three bit then if we
employ ECC then uh it is very it is uh
becomes more difficult to distinguish X
and Y but because the difference 24 and
0.9 is large enough uh we can rely on uh
we can use this for identification
and the output can be uh affected by
environment. Typically the temperature
is the major the primary source of uh
variation. So they uh uh measure the
heming distance of chibx the same chip
but varying the uh temperature and then
they found that the difference is about
two. So here it is larger than this
because the variation of the temperature
affected the output but it is still very
uh low compared to this number 24. So uh
from this environment we can conclude
that uh the we can use the abit of to
identify uh uniquely identify uh chips.
They performed a little bit more
experiments. This is uh about a detailed
uh analysis result of uh the uh
variation.
So uh this is the uh measurement noise
from the same chip. So I said that it is
about 0.9 bits then that is uh
distributed here. So you can see then
most of the uh measurement is uh yeah
placed in very narrow range of the uh
the this chart and uh they measure the
difference here X and Y and you can see
that it uh it it is distributed a broad
range of heming distances.
So on average it is about 24 25 bit.
So uh you can see that uh by using this
we can distinguish X and Y.
And the other experiment is to verify
that the output still generates uh
stable output. So they measure the same
heming distance the distribution of the
heming distance at uh yeah 21 100 uh 25
uh degrees C and compared to 20° the
difference is about 3.5 bit
and at the previous slide I I said it is
two bit because at the time the
temperature was 70 uh degree so uh The
authors actually changes the uh
temperature uh and then uh depending on
the temperature they found that uh the
number of difference uh varies but at
most about 3.5 pi uh bits and they also
measured the noise from the voltage
variation because the input voltage uh
is supposed to be stable but yeah in
reality it has some vari variation. So
uh about assuming 10% voltage variation
they measure how many uh bits are
different and they found they observed
about four bits. So it is still much uh
less than compared to the difference
between different chips.
So as a conclusion uh the abit of puff
is one of the strong candidate of the uh
uh authentication or identification
method uh exploiting the process
variation.