Power consumption is one of the most
important issues nowadays uh regardless
of the classes of processors.
It is obvious that the power efficiency
is very important for mobile devices.
But uh it is also related with reliable
uh operations. Uh because if the if the
processor consumes too much power uh
then it may cause uh device malfunction.
Uh because the power supply um if the
processor consumes power more than the
capability of the power supply then yeah
uh it cannot work reliably. And also uh
when the power when the processor
consumes power that means uh it um needs
cooling otherwise it will get permanent
damage
and also the power efficiency is
important uh for uh the cloud services
because the cloud the operating cost is
mainly uh determined by the electricity
cost.
But the power consumption is actually
the amount of energy uh per unit time.
Uh but sometimes or uh all almost always
we have to consider energy because
energy is a product of the average power
and the execution time. Even though the
processor consumes more power within uh
short period of time, if uh we can
finish the same job uh with even more
power but very short time then in May uh
results in less consumption of energy.
So we always need to consider energy not
just power.
So for example here uh processor A has
20% higher power consumption than
processor B but uh the execution of the
task can be 70%
of processor B then the in terms of
energy we can see that the power in uh
processor A consumes uh less power than
processor B because uh processor A has
more power uh consumes more power but it
has higher um uh performance. So the
total amount of energy it consumes is
less than uh processor B. So uh we
always need to consider the energy
consumption but sometimes the power
consumption is useful um primarily for a
con uh for fixed uh works because um
yeah because for the fixed work uh yeah
typically uh the the amount of the the
period of execution time would be almost
the same. So the amount of amount of
energy is likely to proportional to
power consumption. So in that case power
consumption is useful and also power
consumption is typically used as a
constraint. So in case of chip design
for the from the perspective of chip
design uh the constraint is or usually
um uh determined by power consumption uh
because um the peak power consumption is
directly related with peak current um
current flow. So uh when we design a
chip because it is a hardware we don't
know how long it should work. Typically
the hardware must must to learn
yeah for very long time. So we don't uh
we yeah the hardware engineers have no
idea how long it will work. But the
physical constraint is usually
determined by the maximum uh current or
power consumption. So the power
consumption typically is useful uh when
we design hardware uh as a uh and the
power consumption is given as a uh
constraint.
Dynamic energy uh is proportional to
capacitive load times uh the square of
voltage the power supply voltage and uh
for single transition. So the dynamic
energy is consumed when a signal is uh
changed from one to zero or 0 to one.
But only if we are considering only one
transition then the dynamic energy uh
becomes half.
And when this is the when we we say
energy it uh already consider the
execution time. uh but if we want to
calculate the power consumption then we
need to consider the frequency because
uh the power consumption is the energy
consumption within a um yeah unit time.
So we have to consider how many times
the signal uh yeah signal uh yeah
changes uh within a unit time. So uh it
is uh expressed as frequency here here.
So frequency is not just clock frequency
but the uh frequency of switching
activities.
So uh one example is shown here that uh
the
50% reduction in voltage may result in a
50% reduction in frequency. Uh because
of the voltage reduction the frequency
the uh the amount of changing signal
changes could be also reduced. In that
case the uh reduced uh energy is about
72% to the original uh because when you
put the numbers to this um this uh uh
yeah this equation then uh you will get
uh this and if you plug these numbers to
this equation then you will get uh this
one. So uh yeah this is how we can
estimate the uh power or energy
consumption using uh this.
Yeah, the clock frequency has grown very
rapidly but very recently uh the
clock frequency has not uh increased a
lot uh compared to uh yeah previous
years mainly because the power
consumption uh because the technology
allows to because of the uh tech the
feature size shrinking we may put more
transistors and because of the uh uh if
the transistor size shrinks then the
delay is also likely to uh decrease. So
we expect then higher uh clock frequency
but because of the power consumption we
cannot increase the power we increase
the clock frequency. So the power
consumption is actually the limiting
wall uh to increase the uh clock
frequency.
Then how what what can we do? Uh one way
could be uh just turn off the clock if
we don't use the module because the
clock is one of the major uh power
consuming component in the processor
because it changes very uh yeah quickly.
So uh it is called a uh clock uh gating.
So if we don't use something uh then we
can just cut the clock so that uh its
dynamic power can be saved and this is
uh actually employed in many commercial
uh processors.
If we don't actually need very high
performance then we may scale down the
voltage and clock frequency so that we
can reduce the uh overall power or
energy consumption and this is done uh
dynamically meaning uh we can change the
clock frequency and the supply voltage
during runtime. So this is also very
famous technique and when we this is a
dynamic technique but as for the uh
static technique um we can optimize the
power consumption uh focusing on the
common uh cases. It is a general
principle. So not just only power
optimization but we can apply this
principle to uh yeah for example
performance optimization
or anything else.
But sometimes
uh just reducing uh decreasing the power
consumption uh is not always result in
energy reducing energy consumption
because um I I will explain this uh yeah
ne uh yeah next slide next of next
slide.
Okay. And the other challenge
of the power consumption is static
power. It is also called leakage power
because even if even if we
don't if we do nothing the processor or
the semiconductor in general still
consumes uh very little energy. But uh
the problem is uh because of the feature
size shrinking the dynamic power uh
keeps decreasing but the static power
the leakage power is not decreasing
uh as much as the dynamic power. So uh
the rate the uh relative portion of the
static power is becoming higher and
leakage power is all very important for
mobile devices because you you you
imagine uh uh the smartphone.
So you don't use the smartphone yet. Uh
yeah, you don't keep using the
smartphone. You just turn it on when you
need it and just turn it off. So the
actually the idle time of the smartphone
is pretty long. During the idle time, it
consumes power. So it energy. So that is
a uh that is caused by the uh set uh the
leakage power.
Some studies shows that uh yeah in high
performance design often exceed 50%
the to in yeah out of total power
consumption 50% of the power consumption
is actually leakage because the high
performance technology usually use very
low uh yeah threshold voltage. So this
um yeah static power is related with uh
threshold voltage. Um yeah but anyways
yeah if we uh discuss about this
technology I mean the device technology
manufacturing technology uh it is whole
another story. So uh anyways what I want
to say here is that stat static power is
also one of the major concerns uh yeah
pertaining to the power consumption
and the performance per watt is uh yeah
a new uh efficiency metric uh nowadays
before in uh before uh we are
concernable about the power consumption.
Usually the efficiency metric was uh the
performance per uh scale millimeter. Uh
but nowadays we we are more concerned
about the power consumption. So now we
are using performance per watt is more
popular uh metric. So from this
perspective race to hold strategy is
actually yeah gaining more popularity
because uh in order to reduce the power
consumption there could be two extreme
uh strategy. One is we reduce the
performance
just right to meet the dead deadline.
So that is one approach
so that we can reduce the uh average
power consumption. The other extreme is
this.
We finish the task as soon as possible
even much earlier than the deadline and
then go to sleep because the power
consumption is not
not only by the processor but also uh it
the power is consumed by other
periphers.
So if the uh given task is complete very
quickly and then go to uh slim mode then
not only the processor but other
peripherals can also save the power. So
uh yeah often these uh strateies works
very well uh especially for the complex
uh systems that have many uh
periphererals.
So in the future in the foreseeable
future uh the power consumption is still
very big concern in this uh industry.