In this sub chapter we are going to look
at keystone
uh which is an example from academia.
The main purpose of the uh keystone is
customization.
So here the problem that the keystone
wants to address is the fixed design
point.
And uh it actually mentions only the
commercial uh TE's SGX, Trustone, SEV
all of these are uh commercial TE's of
course because they are yeah commercial
TE uh the they are they do not open
their design to the customers. So it is
yeah obviously uh just fixed uh
functionalities
but because uh these keystone is
developed from schools academia uh they
offer the uh very flexible design and
opensource so the users can uh customize
the tea uh depending on their uh
requirements.
and what can be configured or customized
uh could be include uh uh the trusted
computing base and threat models. So
depending on the threat model uh if we
want to we if we do not want to defend
against some kind of uh threats then
maybe we can just uh decided to
uh exclude some T features. So for
example, if we don't need to address the
trusted IO uh because uh this uh
platform is only uh intended to uh
protect some computation not the
interaction with the external world then
we don't actually need to employ the
trusted path uh related uh features. So
this is one example of the uh uh
customization based on the threat model.
So uh the goal of the uh another example
could be like this. In case of suggx the
uh protect the size of the protected
memory region uh it is uh yeah uh
the processor reserved the memory.
So the size is fixed and uh yeah when it
is evolved to the uh second version uh
SGX uh it is actually configurable but
the the option is only two. So the
smaller one larger one and that's it. So
uh but uh anyways yeah it is kind of a
fixed uh configuration because if the
user wants to even larger uh uh process
reser memory then but uh there is no way
to increase the size of uh PRM
and also uh because it is uh only the uh
propriety ISA the instructions
architecture. So yeah, if we want to add
or changing instructions, it is not
possible.
So that's why the keystone
uh is uh motivated.
Uh so in the authors the developers of
the keystone is targeting at uh
customizable uh TE uh so they it is
analogous to the software defined
networking uh so instead of fixing the
protocol if it is defined as a software
then we can change or customize the uh
network protocol. So in a similar way we
can customize T based on uh uh the uh
requirements.
So the design principles of case to
include the hardware reinforced memory
isolation.
uh if if you are not very familiar with
TE uh the first technique that uh you
can come up with is memory isolation
because the memory isolation is the key
feature of T basically isolation
isolation is very important feature of T
and that should be provided imple uh
hardware implementation because
softwarebased memory isolation is
already we have because the hypervisor
operating system they all support
isolation of the memory space but
if it is perfect then we don't need
hardware based isolation but as you know
there could be many vulnerabilities in
software implementation of course in
hardware implementation there could be
vulnerabilities but uh usually the tech
surface is very small because even
though there is a vulnerability it is
much harder to exploit. So anyways uh
the hardwarebased memory isolation is
one of the key feature that the keystone
also provides
but what is important uh difference from
existing ones is customization. So the
even though it is enforced by hardware
it is still uh configurable so and
customizable. So that is one important
feature. And the second one is uh if we
allow customization
uh especially runtime then the privilege
uh management is very important because
if the attacker manages to uh acquire
high level privilege then the attacker
can change the configuration of the
hardware. Then uh the auto attacker can
circumvent the existing protection
mechanism. Even though it is a hard uh
enforced by hardware if it is not
configured properly then the hardware is
basically becomes useless. So uh in uh
trust zone uh the trusted layer of
software is uh defined and they they as
as I mentioned the key purpose the
difference of the keystone is uh
customization.
So it is based on modularity.
So all the dependent layers uh offer
clean abstractions and maintaining uh
compatibility with existing uh flability
levels. So uh yeah these are some uh
design principles that keystone is
following
unlike vendor species. Uh keystone
supports various workros across embedded
device mobile platform and even cloud
servers without uh platform lock in. So
uh because it is provided as a open
source and it is customizable
uh if the developer wants to target this
keystone uh to uh any kind of device
then they can. So it is one uh yeah
customization uh example and the the
second one is TCB size. The modular
design allows minimal TCB for uh simple
applications and depending on the
requirement if the uh developer wants to
have more features for complex
applications then uh the uh uh the size
of TCB could be increased but just
easily.
So the threat models can be uh yeah
defined uh based on the requirements and
depending on the thread model uh the
designers the developers can choose
which features must be included or not.
The architecture is uh shown on the
right side of this slide and the uh
baseline is the trusted hardware. Uh the
keystone is developed by m making
modification to the risk 5 opensource
processor and some other hardware
features and roots trust are included
and the right upper to the hardware
layer AM mode motion mode uh layer uh is
implemented. uh it is with the highest
privilege level and the security monitor
SM only the SM can configure the
hardware and uh yeah so this place as a
part of TCB trusted computing platform
uh uh base
and on top of M mode security monitor
the S mode system software is running
in the untrusted domain the operating
system uh is running with S mode and the
user applications are running in U mode
and in in clay uh that is under
protection has a runtime in running in
the S mode. So uh this is a kind of
system software to support inclave and
as you can see here the inclave
does not running on operating system. So
the runtime can be considered as a
simplified version of the operating
system.
So if you think about the suglave
is still running on operating system but
we don't trust the operating system but
still enclave applications rely on the
uh services from the operating system
but keystone does not
the memory isolation of keystone tone is
implemented based on the PMP the
physical memory protection feature
provided by risk file. So PMP itself is
not a new feature of the keystone but it
is a memory protection mechanism of risk
five and the keystone leverages this PMP
feature for flexible and dynamic memory
isolation.
Uh so the definition of the regions
memory regions uh is flexible and uh it
it also it is flexible in terms of its
size because regions can may have from
four byte to the entire DM. So the uh
size of the memory region uh is very uh
flexible
and it can be also reconfigured during
runtime. So the dynamic reconfiguration
is also uh supported. Here is a an
example is given and this is the
physical memory and if if it is running
in the untrusted context that means just
running just regular applications then
uh this part is still occupied by the
security monitor the highest level uh
yeah software and this is for uh inclave
uh applications. So the normal
applications cannot access this uh
memory region
and uh if the the first this enclave is
running then the enclave is only it can
access its own memory and this one is
untrusted memory region and uh this is
uh identity identified by this
permission flags. So uh the enclave in
enclave context only this region this
this memory reason uh the enclave E1
application can access by checking this
uh yeah permission flag and other uh
memory regions uh the inclave one E1
doesn't have a permission uh it is uh
specified by uh these flags
Kisto still provides other types of T
primitives. So the secure booting and uh
the root of trust measures the image of
the uh SM the security monitor the most
important uh for I believe uh because it
is the with the highest privilege and
then uh it also supports some secure
random number generator based on the
hardware source of uh uh randomness for
example CPU jitter uh and DM decay.
These are uh some nondeterministic
uh random uh yeah uh it it is generating
some random signals uh based on the some
physical uh variations
and the remoteestation
uh and sealed storage they are just yeah
normal yeah conventional uh security
features of keys and trusted timer
because Uh the timer plays very
important role for embedded system
especially uh for the real time
operating system because the real time
operating system uh works uh by by
receiving the time tick from the timer
uh it triggers uh context switching or
counting the or checking the deadline
that kind of things. So if the timer is
manipulated then the system may not work
as expected. So uh the trust this
keystone uh provides some trust uh timer
and uh secure delegation means the
handling exceptions securely. It
includes secure context switching and uh
secure uh yeah interrupt handling. So uh
this is also just uh uh another
important uh uh key features that the
keystone provides.