to support virtual memory. Uh Intel
employs hardware based memory management
unit. Uh [snorts] and uh the MMU
refers to the page table to translate
the virtual addresses to physical
addresses.
But the problem here is that the page
table is maintained by the operating
system and under the Intel SGX thread
model the operating system is untrusted.
So uh the operating system may
manipulate the page table and uh measure
some timing differences or uh yeah
timing differences uh of the page for
then it can infer a memory access
pattern of the uh victim process.
Uh so not only the page table but uh
segmentation units or uh translation
lucaside buffer TB which is also can be
considered as a cache or maintain uh
state information that can be uh
exploited by the attackers.
So uh yeah that that is one another uh
surface that the adversaries may uh
exploit
the page for driven attacks uh exploit
the page for exceptions uh to infer
sensitive information.
So the attacker uh first need to learn
the base address where the target
application binary is loaded. Then the
attacker manipulate the page tables to
uh restrict the access of the uh victim
process. That means uh when certain
pages are uh if those pages are accessed
the page fault should occur.
So when actually the page fault occurs
then the operating system is supposed to
replace the uh mapping change the
mapping. So the operating system can
learn whether this particular page was
successed by the victim process or not.
So in this way the attacker can figure
out which uh pages the victim process is
accessing.
Uh but this is uh yeah you can easily
imagine that it has some limitation
because the memory access pattern here
is uh the granularity is only the size
of the memory page.
So uh but uh still even though the
granularity is uh not very fine uh many
papers uh this reveal actual report
report that uh we can still infer uh
sensitive informations from for example
text documents or Jtech imaging or even
crypto. graphic keys.
So it depends on the implementation
uh but uh because existing yeah
implementation do not consider this kind
of tech vectors um yeah it they are
actually vulnerable.
another uh useful I should say uh yeah
goal of the uh page for based attack is
version identification. So even though
we don't uh extract all the details or
some sensitive information from the uh
victim application.
Yeah. Even the version number even if
the attacker manage to identify the
version number uh the specific uh
implementation of the application then
uh the it actually gives yeah very
useful information to the attacker.
So if yeah especially if the victim
application is a open-source application
then by just identifying its number
budget number oh we can actually get the
source code of the victim process. So
from there the attacker can uh yeah uh
yeah find vulnerabilities and uh tries
to come up with an effective attack
method to the uh victim application.
Uh another uh some uh yeah
tricky uh yeah method is sneaky page
monitoring. I I is I am saying tricky is
that this is it does not incur any page
vault.
uh but
uh by combining existing OTN method on
page table cache and DM
uh it overcomes limitation of individual
tech vectors.
So that is because for example if we
exploit if the uh page table based text
is likely to trigger many page boards.
So uh the the the one of the well long
mitigation method is just counting uh
the frequency of page fault. If the
number of page fault is too many
then it is considered as a potential
attack. So by uh circumventing by to uh
nullify this type of mitigation method
uh this uh sneaky page monitoring does
not require page for but just uh observe
the uh page access flag of the uh page
table entry.
It depends on the implementation or
architecture, but some page entries in
the page table has a flag that indicates
whether this page was accessed or not or
some dirty flag that this page was
updated or not. By only observing those
flags, the opter can still figure out
whether this page was accessible or not.
It does not need page vault
and its granularity is not very fine. So
by combining
other attack method like cache or DM uh
yeah timing attacks uh the attackers can
still uh yeah extract some sensitive
information.
as an example uh it reduced the page
fault uh incurred interrupts from 71,000
to only 1,030
for attacking eddsa
u yeah algorithm