Intel SGX
like other uh trusted execution
environment uh provides very strong uh
security guarantees.
Uh it is pretty good at checking the
integrity of application when it is
launched and preserving its integr
integrity and also uh encrypting data
which we is stored in the memory and
storage but uh it still has a
fundamental
uh vulnerability or let's say limitation
that is uh
anyway some resources must be shared
shared by untrusted application and
including the operating system. So uh it
cannot be completely
separated from the untrusted
applications. There are uh known
vulnerabilities.
Most of the known vulnerabilities are
about uh breaking the confidentiality
of the inclive application by analyzing
the timing uh side channel information.
the timing side channel information is
available because some resources
must be shared. So uh it is not
guaranteed that uh as soon as the
trusted application the enclave
application wants to access a resource
if the resource is currently being used
by another application it takes time or
vice versa that is more important when
while the trusted application is
accessing one resource for example
simple memory or cache. If another
application tries to access the same
resource, then it will take more time.
That actually gives us a hint that the
enclave application is currently
accessing that particular resource. So
by measuring the timing difference
uh we can infer whether the inclave
application is currently access which uh
resource.
So it is a kind of fundamental
limitation.
If we want to eliminate this kind of
side side channel information then we
have to physically separate everything
from the untrusted part of the system
then it is nothing but just employing
another processor. So uh yeah th this is
kind of uh yeah inevitable limitation I
think but there are still uh efforts
mitigating these uh limitations but for
for this particular um yeah sub in this
particular subsection uh we will discuss
what kind of uh surface uh is being uh
Yeah, have been uh reported.
We then categorize the attack surface
into
by which part which resource by or which
resource the attackers can infer some uh
sensitive information. They can uh
measure the timing difference accessing
uh page table uh precisely speaking the
uh yeah
uh fault the page fault and cache and
branch prediction. So whether the branch
is predicted correctly or not we can uh
measure the timing and DM how long it
takes to access the DM and inclave
interface as well. So uh we will uh look
look at how uh these attacks are visible
and by utilizing what what kind of
features.
As you can see here uh the existing uh
auto surface is as I mentioned before uh
the
attacking on timing I mean the uh
confidentiality by analyzing the uh
timing uh side channel information.
The most most of the existing works have
been focused on the CPU cache timing
analysis.
There are whole bunch of papers that uh
are uh discussing
uh what kind of texts are available or
feasible and how to mitigate them.
As you know the CPU cache is employed uh
because of the speed gap between the
processor and the main memory. Uh we
temporarily store recently used data in
the cache and if caching miss occurs we
have to fetch the request data from the
next level of the memory hierarchy. it
takes much longer than uh cash heat
occurs that that's the point uh that is
exploited by the adversaries.
Uh if the adversaries can measure the
time difference uh between the hits and
miss then the attacker can infer the
memory access pattern of the inclave
application. By analyzing the memory
access pattern, the attackers can
extract some sensitive information like
encryption keys.
There are uh several ways to measure the
timing difference. Uh the first example
is prime and prove attack.
It first initializes the uh target cache
sets with their own data. It is called
priming the cache and then uh it waits
uh it is waiting for the victim process
excuse and uh if the victim process
access
um a memory that is that conflicts with
the attacker's data then the data of the
attacker will be evicted and then the
requested data will be fetched from the
memory.
And when the attackers rude their data
and uh measures the access time, if it
can uh it takes much longer to reload
that data, that means that cache line
was evicted by a by the victim
processor.
So uh the attacker can now uh yeah know
learn that this cash line was accessed
by the victim process.
By repeating this process the attacker
can figure out the memory access pattern
of the uh process uh the target I mean
the victim process.
So uh once the attacker figures out the
memory access pattern then if the memory
access pattern is dependent on the
sensitive information then uh the
sensitive information can be uh
inferred. For example if yeah this is
very representative example of side
channel analysis. For example, uh the
victim process may for example call
function A if some sensitive information
is true
then uh but the function A is stored in
somewhere in the memory. So uh by
analyzing the cache timing if the
attacker learns
whether the memory address of function A
was uh accessible or not. The attacker
can learn whether the sensitive
information is true or not. So by
analyzing by in uh in this way the
attacker can extract some insensitive
information
for prime and prove tech. uh the
uh
the attacker should has have some
knowledge of LLC the last level cache
slice mapping because the last level
cache is shared by multiple processors
and there are some rules to map the
slice of last level cache uh to the uh
course
And uh it should yeah obviously uh be
able to create eviction sets and but it
does not need any shared memory because
it is only on the shared last level
cache and it works in cross core
scenarios. That means even though uh the
attacker's process is running on a
different core uh from the victim
process, it still works.
Another representative example is flush
and reload update. It is it is similar
but a little bit different in yeah maybe
in reverse way. So uh it the attacker
first flush the old cash
that are likely to be accessed by the
victim process
and then the victim or yeah process
excuse and uh because the cash is now
empty then the uh victim uh will uh face
some trigger some cache uh caching miss
and fetching uh the data from the
memory.
Then the attacker reload the shared data
and uh if we takes shorter then the uh
it means that cach line was accessed by
the victim otherwise it is not accessed.
So in this way uh it is similar but kind
of a little bit different. So by doing
this the attacker can uh learn the
access pattern of the victim process.
Yeah there are some minor yeah
derivatives of the uh yeah attack
techniques method
the aict and time attack. uh in this
attack in this method the attacker
measures the victim's total execution
time after evicting specific uh caching
lines. So uh it it does not measure the
individual uh access time of the cache.
So uh it it is only measuring the total
uh execution time. This method is useful
if the attacker does not have uh the
privilege or capability of running the
uh the attack process
uh at the same time or at the
concurrently with the bit process. The
next one is flush flush attack. uh in
this model in this method uh the arter
measures the execution of time of the
flush instruction itself that is uh if
uh cash flushing is done very quickly
that means the data was already flushed
slow means it was in cash. So in this
way uh we can also learn uh the whether
a uh specification line was used or not.
AIT and reload it is combining eviction
with reload uh measurement. So the
attacker evicts data uh and then victim
process runs. Then the attacker checks
if their data was replaced or not. So uh
it is another derivative of the uh other
uh yeah uh
yeah it is very yeah similar but a
little bit different uh derivatives of
this uh the uh uh the previous uh the
the method in the previous slides.
Some method requires both victim process
and the attacker process running on the
same core.
In that if uh it is possible then uh it
can access the attacker can analyze the
access pattern of the L1 cache because
these two processes are running on the
same core. They share the same L1 uh
cache
and typically L1 caches are virtually
indexed. That means uh the attacker does
not uh need to be understand the virtual
to physical address mapping and LLC
uh yeah slicing
uh yeah slice mapping.
It is relatively simpler and uh shows
high accuracy because uh the uh access
pattern is immediately
uh reflected on the L1 cache. But the
arter should be able to schedule on the
same core uh with the victim process.
But cross core attacks mean uh victim
and attacker processes
may run on different cores.
So it should target at the last level
cache.
Last level caches are usually uh
physically indexed. So the attackers
should know uh how the virtual pages is
mapped to the physical pages and also
how the LLC is mapped to different
coursees and it also
uh it is suffers from some noise because
or yeah it is more difficult to analyze
the access pattern because uh the last
level cache is successed only if the
higher level L1 and L2 caches
uh yeah cash mis occurs. So uh it is
much more challenging but more realistic
in multi-tenant cloud environments where
the attackers is much harder to get the
uh privilege or capability of scheduling
a specific process on a specific uh
core.
And as I just said that the attackers
can uh analyze the access pattern then
uh to be more precise the access pattern
can be categorized into these uh three
types. The first one is tra traced
driven uh attack that is the most
knowledgeable attacker
knows the access pattern and the exact
order of the memory access. So uh it is
it is the most detailed information but
obviously it is hardest uh to obtain.
uh but uh in practic practice the
attacker still is uh capable of having
some snapshots of the caches state but
the attacker don't know their exact
order only whether the victim is
accessing this memory uh or not but not
the exact order especially if the only
the last level cache uh can be accessed
then uh depending on the memory access
pattern the order of accessing the last
level cache may vary. So this is kind of
more more uh practical uh attack
category. And the last one is only
analyzing the execution time of the
sensitive application not the actual
precise memory access pattern.
And if multiple cores
has its own private cache
uh the their coherency must be
maintained. The catch coance protocols
are employed for that purpose. depending
on the state of the cache coance
protocol. It also takes uh time
and instead of directly uh flushing or
uh invalidating
uh the cash line by exploiting the cash
querance protocol. uh the the
uh adversary may uh change the state or
uh measure the uh time to access the
specific kitchen line.
So for example if uh yeah it is very
similar with the the last level cache uh
access time. So uh if cashi hits then if
the big team uh previous previously
accesses a sudden cash line and the
attacker access the same cash line then
yeah it takes much less time because of
cash hits otherwise it takes longer. In
a similar way uh even though the victim
process is running on a different core
uh the L1
caches their uh state is maintained by
the cash querance protocol. So uh by
exploiting the cash querus protocol uh
the victim process uh the attacker
process may uh infer some may measure uh
the timing difference uh of the
accessing the cash line.
The DM based attack is similar to the
cachebased timing attack because in DM
DM has a row buffer that is for that
works place as a um yeah cache accessing
the DM rows. So uh the
uh the the protocol of accessing the DM
is like this. We first send the row
address and then uh the entire row is
fetched from the memory cells uh to the
row buffer and from the row buffer we
actually access the data. So in the row
buffer the lastly access the most recent
recent data is temporarily uh stored. So
it is is like a cache. So uh in a
similar way with the cash timing attack
the attackers can measure the timing
difference of accessing a um yeah DM
row. So it is still possible uh but
there are some limitations. The first
one is actually the main memory DM is in
the last level in the memory hierarchy.
So all only if all the memory caches
uh miss then the last level memory is
accessed. So there are much uh noise and
uh the data is actually most of the uh
hot data which is actively accessed the
hot data is stored in the cache not
memory. So yeah because of this
limitation the DM based attack alone
cannot
uh give high resolution of memory access
pattern. Uh so it is usually used with
uh combining with other types of tech uh
method.